All right.
Oh, that's loud.
Thank you, everybody, for showing up.
And my name is Juussi-Pekka Mantere.
I'm the Engineering Manager for
Managed Client and Managed
Desktop and System Imaging.
And let's see,
there are still people walking in,
so people, find your spots.
Oh, these are the Apple people who
are waiting for the overflow.
So here's the agenda for today.
But before I go into that,
so how many people were at the
server overview session yesterday?
Yay!
So I have just two words for you:
command-line utilities.
Yay!
And thank you.
So we're done.
So the agenda for today is
we'll discuss managed desktop.
The key features that we're
adding for that and application
loss restrictions is first.
And then-- oh my gosh--
Hierarchical Groups.
So this is basically nested
management of groups.
Then we have reporting tools for that.
And we have external accounts,
which is an extension for
Portable Home Directories.
And-- oh my god.
Thank you.
And system imaging,
we have simplified image creation.
Automator Actions for
System Image Utility and Command-Line
Image Creation for System Image Utility.
[Transcript missing]
What we had for Tiger,
we had a preference manifest which is a
way for developers to add descriptions on
their preferences into their application
bundles so that they're easier
manageable through Workgroup Manager.
And portable home directories which
was an extension to the cached
accounts feature and then that
became portable home directories.
And then for developer documentation,
so if you're a developer,
not a system administrator or IT staff,
we had a session last year on the
managed desktop and specifically about
using CF preference and some of the
best practices on how you'd use your
applications in a network environment.
Let's say if your application is
run on a net booted system or if
your user's home directory would
be on a networked home directory.
So we have documentation
on the developer site.
So here's the URL.
So if you get the slides
after this presentation,
if you go to that and look at
the best practices that we have,
so that covers basically
what we had in Tiger.
But we're here to talk
about new technologies that
are delivered in Leopard.
So here's what we're doing.
The focus on Leopard for managed
desktop is improved security.
And this is through
application loss restrictions,
actually make them work, fix it,
forget it, be done with that.
And better manageability and specifically
this is about hierarchical groups.
So you could actually have workgroups
that are nested so you could actually
layer your preferences in some
logical shape and not have to have
individual users in individual
workgroups and then figure out how
they pick and choose amongst those.
So this is more mobility.
So this is extension of
cached accounts in Jaguar,
excuse me,
in Panther and then portable home
directories in Tiger and now external
accounts in Mac OS X Leopard.
So let me first go into
application loss restrictions.
So we've received feedback that there
are some things that we could improve
with application loss restrictions,
specifically that people
are able to go around them.
There are not so much restrictions,
but when we look at the history of that,
this feature was a legacy
carryover from Macintosh Manager.
So what we had in Macintosh Manager is
basically application identities.
You had resource IDs and
we had a whitelist,
blacklist of applications that are
allowed to run or not allowed to run.
And the way we find it,
this should say tiger weaknesses,
Leopard will have no weaknesses.
The bundle IDs can be easily changed.
So previously you had to have at least
some advanced tools like Resedit.
Resedit on Mac OS 9, 9, 8, 7, whatever.
You have to go and edit the
application creator code.
Well, today you can use TextEdit
to do the same thing.
Go into the Info.plist and make
the application look like it's
something else and you're done.
And other thing for application launch
restrictions is that we don't have
any support for widget management.
So if you have a dashboard
as an allied application,
then any widget that the user might have
access to actually is allowed to run.
So we're addressing
that in Leopard as well.
So, the leverage solution that we have
for Application Launch Restrictions
is a kernel-based mechanism.
So,
kernel is the lowest level we can go to.
Like, after that it's bare metal.
We're not doing a TPM.
We could do a TPM something
on the hardware,
but we thought that was maybe too much.
So, on the kernel we have a
mechanism called KAUTH.
This is something that's
shipped in Mac OS and Tiger.
So, on top of the KAUTH mechanism,
which basically traps Unix system calls.
So, when a application launches,
it goes through an execution
mechanism and we can actually trap
that mechanism inside the kernel.
So,
we built a enforcement kernel extension
that then does the restrictions per user.
And to manage the restrictions on a user,
we have a launch policy or
application launch policy that's
another agent that talks to the
kernel level of kernel extension.
And then we have an application
identification piece as well that
then talks to the enforcement So,
the only way you could actually get
around this in Leopard would be if
you had root access to the system.
So, if you can install a
KEXT and delete a KEXT,
well, your system is compromised.
So, there shouldn't be any user level
access to any of these modules now.
So, editing an Info.plist file,
that wouldn't really do
anyone any good anymore.
And the implementation we
have right now is path-based.
So that means that if we want to
restrict somebody from running Safari,
we basically tell the policy
module that this user named
Joe can launch application at
this location slash applications,
slash Safari.app, slash contents,
slash Mac OS, Safari.
And that's it.
So we trust that the file system
permissions haven't been munched with
in such a way that ordinary users would
be able to install applications there.
So if somebody has access to
the file system and can change
files from the file system,
then, well, they can install what
applications they can.
But if it's an administered system,
then we trust that anything
under slash applications is
under administration control,
and we can trust the file
system permissions to be of
some level of integrity that we
won't have to worry about that.
And in the future, we might look into,
we are looking into code signing.
So instead of, instead of using just
path-based policies,
we would use code signing and
maybe even some dynamic permission
granting so that when the kernel
extension that we have the user agent,
when it does a check for the
permissions for the application launch,
it would actually go to
some external module,
and that could be some RPC call,
IPC call, and then the grant would
happen dynamically.
So if you have family controls or
parental controls on the desktop client,
you are using managed desktop and you're
using Application Launch Restrictions.
So it's not if you're
a developer and think,
well, I don't have to worry about that
because this is a K through 12 or
enterprise or education feature.
Well, it's not really.
If your application is used at home
or anywhere else where somebody
might be able to use or might
want to use parental controls,
then the Application Launch Restriction
feature in parental controls sits on top
of the Application Launch Restriction
side of managed desktop.
And now let's go to a demo.
So if we could have the
demo slides up please.
And demo guards please.
Yeah, demo guys,
because I have to look over there.
I have a screen here that I don't use.
So this is going to be interesting.
I'll go to System B first.
And System B.
Do we get System B up on the screen?
This is demo restriction.
Thank you.
So we have now demo A,
and now I'm going to demo B.
- Okay,
I can log on to the administrator.
- Yeah.
I'm just gonna... -
Just refresh the screen.
and Figaro Tone.
Yay!
It's coming back.
Oh, let me try.
Thank you.
So we had some issues with
the displays here before,
so please bear with us.
So let me show you how
things work in Tiger.
So right now I'm on a Tiger system.
So if you look at this,
this is Mac OS 10.4.6.
Actually,
I should do the demo from there.
So I'm gonna log on a user.
So I'm going to call this
leadhackser and password something.
Oh, because this is not an O,
it's a zero.
So my user now logs on.
And OK, so I have some applications here.
So let's see if I go back to system A.
Okay.
Excuse me if I peer over this
monitor because I'm not really
happy with this resolution,
so I'll make this 10, 20.
Can you tell if we had a little
bit rush getting this demo
set up when we came on stage?
Okay, that works.
Now it's actually readable from here.
And did we -- okay.
So let me just verify that all our
demo systems are now up and running.
Oh, I will log out, excellent.
So now I'm supposed to be at demo three.
Okay, so this is now demo C,
and we have no video from that either.
- Dun dun dun.
Yeah, what about that Leopard
Application Launch Restriction feature?
So, should we just reboot that?
So there's no computer scene.
[Transcript missing]
Did I try them again?
Okay.
So while we reboot,
Yeah, the problem with this demo is that
we brought our own servers thinking
that this was the safer way.
And apparently that was
not such a good option.
Okay.
So we'll get that system up.
That's the fun with doing servers.
So we wanted to be on isolated networks.
We have our own router.
We have our own server.
We have our own
We're not connected to the
demo setup here except for
the monitors and unfortunately
the monitors that we're using,
we have a dual DVI output so
we're doing screen mirroring
and our servers are Mac Minis.
So those are very portable but we don't
have dual DVI out on the Mac Minis yet.
And probably don't think we're
planning to but that's the demo
setup we thought we'd go with.
Okay,
so that should be coming up shortly now.
Okay, thank you.
So when the system is actually booted,
here we go.
Oh, temporary refresh.
Can I touch it now?
Okay, my mouse is moving.
I'm at System C now and
I'm supposed to get a
There we go.
So let me just change this resolution
to something more readable as well.
This place.
We have step four.
Okay, so here we go.
So let me just launch a
instance of Record Manager.
So I'll be needing that too.
and shortly, please don't beach ball.
Okay.
As soon as the beach ball is finished,
then I'll show you what's going on.
Excuse the intermission and
Soon we'll have our mighty
Mac Mini Server on Workgroup Manager.
It's coming up.
It's the first instance launch
of this particular build.
Yay!
So, now we have all our demos set up.
Let me just see some users first.
Please.
We do have users here.
We do have groups.
So we're managing the server and we are
waiting for the user list to appear.
And soon that's going to be-- no,
actually we're at 28.8 something here.
So our serial connection
isn't so hot right now.
So let me bring up a terminal
and see if we can actually talk
to the server in any other way.
This is a preview of upcoming demo.
So CDL.play3 Server Auth Admin.
Oops, actually, Dear Admin.
So, looks like my directory server
is actually up and running.
Except the Workgroup
Manager doesn't see anything.
Okay, so let me just have that sit
there in the background and
go back to my demo B system.
So, okay, so what we have here is
this is a Tiger client.
So in Workgroup Manager,
I have set this user on
Application Launch Restrictions
so that this user has only
access to two applications.
So the user can launch chess,
Yay, because we want people to be
cerebrally entertained during school.
And for some reason,
this user also has access to Terminal,
which is probably a bad thing.
So there goes all your application
launch restrictions right there on Tiger.
But the thing is that if
I try to launch Safari,
for example,
I'm not able to launch Safari.
So in effect,
I have just two applications
that I granted for this user.
So on Tiger,
if the user has copied a version
of Safari onto their desktop,
well, if the Safari application is
the same as the system version,
then that will not launch.
But because this user has
access to their home directory,
they can copy whatever files onto
their home directory they can.
So let's imagine that this
copy of Safari came over on a
FireWire drive or USB stick.
And then this particular user
has a neat script that they
changed the bundle ID of Safari.
And now this copy of Safari--
that's the system copy in
applications-- does not launch.
But here, the desktop copy suddenly
became launchable.
So this is the
Tiger Behavior Application Launch Rest
rictions.
Apparently, it's not so strong.
So let's quit that.
Let me go to our demo A system.
So now if I log in this same user,
so we are now running 10.5,
so this is a Leopard client.
and on Leopard System,
I have network accounts, that's good.
If I log on my LeetHackSource,
and go and try to run the same demo
or try to do the same trick as in
getting access to my home directory
and then trying to launch an
application there that I had modified.
As soon as my network logging works.
- And restricted.
- Yes, our network home directories
were protected at the same time.
This user.
Okay.
Reboot the server.
Yeah.
So the problem is that I think my
network accounts are available.
So, here, yeah, Bruce,
if we can reboot the, kill that,
kill the clients,
and then start up the server.
Okay, if we can go back to the slides,
please.
So back to the slides, please.
There are no slides.
If I walk over here, do I have slides?
Let's touch on the slides.
Yay!
At least something works.
Maybe we should have done
the demos from the slides.
There's a slight glitch with our demo,
if you haven't been able to tell.
Our network doesn't seem to be quite
up and running the way we had hoped.
So, what you would have
seen in the demo before,
so when we use the Thai Leopard
Application Launch Restrictions,
the client on the Leopard side,
even if we modify the
local copy of Safari,
the K-auth mechanism and the
kernel extension that we have on
top of that would have prevented
that copy of Safari from running.
So, only the legitimate copy of Safari,
oh sorry,
only the legitimate applications,
Jess and Terminal, would be able to run.
Even if you edit the application,
no matter where it resides
in the file system,
that wouldn't make the
application able to run.
That's the demo.
So let's move on to hierarchical groups.
And guys,
are we having any luck with the server?
No.
We're not?
Okay.
and then pull the plug on this
and then I have to reboot that.
So the server is rebooting and now,
and wait,
wait a second for the server to reboot.
Bruce?
So wait for this to come up.
So hierarchical groups,
and we have a demo of this as well,
so let's hope that actually works.
So for hierarchical groups,
what this allows you to do is
to have granular management.
So this is basically a way of attaching
users to not just top-level workgroups
and having the user to choose between
multiple workgroups and essentially
getting just one set of preferences
through that workgroup selection.
So we can have nested groups
and we inherit some of the
preferences through the nesting.
So you can have user belong to group
A and if that group A belongs to group B,
then the user gets all the
preferences that are in that chain.
And we are also using the
member D functionality that
was part of Mac OS X Tiger.
So this is the way we do ACLs.
So any group memberships are resolved
through member D and that basically
gives us the nested group mechanism.
And we are also using computer groups.
So today, you can only have single
computer list per computer.
Single computer can belong
only to a single computer list.
So if you wanted to have
computer-level nesting,
that wouldn't be possible today
using the computer list construct.
So we are migrating the computer
lists mechanism into a computer group.
So a computer can belong to multiple
computer groups and computer
groups can be nested themselves.
Thank you.
There is a legacy computer,
so if you have mixed clients both
running Mac OS X Panther or Tiger,
so using 10.4, 10.3,
and then have some leopard
systems appear on the site,
there is a way to map between the
computer lists into the computer groups.
Here's an example of how
we'd use the computer list.
Let's say we have a couple of
different scenarios we want to set up.
Imagine you are doing software update and
login window and energy saver and try to
do the same settings for another set of
machines and yet another set of machines.
You'd have to basically narrow down the
unique collections of preferences and
then create computer lists for those.
and yeah, that's bad.
But here, if we have the same set of
machines and we want to set up,
for example, now Energy Saver,
we can create the Energy Saver
group for never sleep for some
systems and then another group for
systems that are allowed to sleep.
And then if we have
login window preferences,
we can have login window settings
that then overlap those same machines.
And then on top of that all,
we just have one software update
group that all the systems belong to.
So we basically overlay all these
different settings on top of one another,
and you can logically construct the most,
I'd say rational,
but most understandable way
of grouping the computers into
their particular settings.
[Transcript missing]
and... Okay.
Here we go again.
What did I do?
Okay, we go to demo.
Excellent.
So if I can go to this screen
and now we are looking at demo
one and I should be at demo two.
And that would be my system C here.
So let's see if that came up.
Did this system come up again?
Demo C?
It has power.
We're not locked down again.
That's what Reboot did to us.
There's going to be a
sleep on these machines.
That's on C.
So that's the system.
Okay.
This is C.
Do you see better?
Yeah.
C is here.
You're done with that?
Yeah.
Okay.
The only way we can bring
this up is if we do this.
Okay.
So I'll do that.
That's all right.
While we're doing this,
no actually I shouldn't touch this.
So this is now on computer C.
We need both systems
for your demo as well.
Let's do some emergency shuffling then.
We'll go through
hierarchical groups and then
We still need to get demo C up
before we go to Bruce's section.
So let's just get something on
the screen from this system.
Just now rebooting.
Let me do this again.
Okay, so System C is rebooting now again,
so if you can see if that comes up.
Yeah, we have it switched on, thanks.
Yes, okay, we're coming up, thanks.
So what do I do next?
OK.
So if this system comes up
and I can log on with a user,
then we're good to go.
Bruce, now let's do a demo.
So we're going back to demo A and Bruce.
Okay, so if we can switch back
to the slides please.
Back to slides please.
So meanwhile,
while we wait for the demos to come up,
we'll have Bruce Gaya come up and
do a demo of external accounts.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
How's my microphone on?
Okay, great.
So, external counts, next slide.
and And we actually do a demo.
So let's do a demo.
Okay, first of all, let's go to Demo A.
Can we go back to the demo slides,
please?
Demo A.
Let's hope it works.
Yes.
Okay.
So, I've created an external account.
It's on this Firewire drive here.
I seem to have lost my microphone.
What external account is, is a PhD,
everything you need,
all on an external disk.
Now, let's go to Demo C,
which I'll do here.
Okay, we're not going to do demo C.
Back to demo A.
Okay,
well I'm going to plug this back in.
Here's the cable.
Okay, so I'm just going to
plug this back in here.
Like this.
Leave it alone.
Check to make sure it's spinning up.
Looks good.
Okay, so now I'm going to log in
using my normal password.
and Okay, great.
So now this is my total home, right?
I've got all my files here, everything.
If I go to look at the
home here in the finder,
you see that?
It's right here on this FireWire drive.
Okay?
An external account is also a
mobile account and also a PhD.
So I can synchronize,
synchronize back to the server.
Though I won't do that right now.
And I'm going to go through with
this and make a quick change here.
And then I'll log out.
and if the server was
up it would re-sync.
Ah!
What do you know?
There we go.
And so what it's doing is synchronizing
its hard drive back to the server.
So now,
Back to login window.
I can take this out again,
put this in my pocket,
go to another machine,
and do the same thing.
That's the demo.
Didn't see that.
Okay, so I'm going to talk about
external accounts here.
Let me head back to the slides.
Okay, so what are external accounts?
Next, evolution in managed mobility.
In Panther, we had mobile accounts.
That was essentially a network
cached account plus credentials
and also a local home directory.
In Tiger, latest release,
we had portable home directories.
That's a mobile account so you have
a cached network account plus cached
credentials plus home synchronization.
So your network home and your
local home on your portable
computer are synchronized.
So you can go basically
take your account,
work offline, come back, resynchronize,
you're back, everything's all nice.
Now here we are in Leopard.
We're going to introduce
external accounts.
So what are external accounts?
They're the total portable home directory
implementation plus everything is
going to be cached right on the disk.
Okay,
now I have to explain how this works.
So for external accounts, two situations.
You're inside the firewall.
What I mean by this is
you're on your own network.
You know, you have a network server,
network file server, LDAP,
network authentication server,
it's all sitting there.
So when you take an account and
present it to one of these machines,
what happens is the account information
and the password information actually
all go right from the server.
Okay, they're not coming from
the cache on this disk.
So it's perfectly, well,
it's as secure as a network login.
All you're doing is you're
presenting a name and a password
and a home directory and logging in.
If you go outside the firewall,
that is on some of these machines,
you know,
just connected at home or whatever,
or just on a different network,
You present your disk.
What you need now is you need not
only your account name and password,
but you're also going to need
[Transcript missing]
Computer Administrator Authorization.
Now, we remember this so that if you
come back to the same machine again,
you don't have to go
through the same process.
Okay, external accounts.
They enhance OS X Server networks.
I said external accounts as a PhD,
so what do you get with a PhD?
You get local disk performance
with a network account,
all the network manageability,
network password.
It enables data backup.
Now, what does a PhD do?
A PhD provides a mirror between your
local disk and your network home,
or local home and your network home.
If you have backup on your server,
let's say Time Machine,
you can actually recover all
your old versions and it forms
a complete backup system.
So all you need to do is backup your
servers and your images and you basically
have all your portable home directories,
all your external accounts backed up.
Okay, where external accounts are going
to be good is in computer labs.
You set up labs all over.
Your employees or students
can go from lab to lab,
take your disk with them.
You really don't need any synchronization
in this case except for backup.
You can go campus to campus to home.
It's nice, one campus, another campus not
connected to that campus.
Still take your stuff with you.
If you're a network administrator,
this might be fun.
Go home.
And also, it also kind of enables
a multi-user workstation.
What I mean by that is if you have a
machine which is specially configured,
let's say scanners, what not,
video hardware, what not.
You can take your data with you, log in,
take your whole account with you,
log into that machine.
You can take it out and some other
user can come with their account,
go to that machine and use all
the hardware in that machine.
So it's kind of nice for that.
So how should you manage?
Leopard Workgroup Manager.
That's where you manage it.
First thing is in Leopard,
you can require that file vault
be turned on at all portable home
directories and all external accounts.
Okay, you can limit which computers
allow external accounts,
so maybe it's appropriate for this lab,
not appropriate for some other lab.
External accounts retain all
their MCX Managed Settings.
They can retain their user
and their group settings.
So wherever they go,
they can still be managed.
Okay, talk about hardware briefly.
Okay, best hardware is going to
be a portable firewire,
portable disk, or USB disk.
This is because they're generally
hardened for vibration or drops.
I was looking at this one firewire drive,
and it said that it could be dropped from
30 inches onto concrete without damage.
That's pretty good.
You can also use desktop disks,
but they're not going to have that
kind of mobility aspect of them,
you know.
And also,
if you're considering deployment,
you might need to have some
extra power available for people
who bring desktop disks or have
external accounts on desktop disks.
And finally,
I have to say that flash-based
devices are not recommended.
Okay, security, use FireVault.
Yeah, FileVault, not FireVault.
Use FileVault, or basically,
when you have an external device
connected to an unmanaged computer,
you can touch and read
every bit of data on that.
So if you want security,
we recommend that you turn on
FileVault for all external accounts.
So that's the end of external accounts.
There was some other stuff I didn't get
to show today because of various reasons.
If you're on the developer site,
we'd like to give feedback.
You know, if you get a seed, let us know.
We're continuing to develop
this as we move to Leopard.
Thanks.
Okay, so thank you, Bruce.
Let's see where we are with our slides.
So can we go to the demo slides, please?
and see if we have anything up.
So I need to resync.
Oh my gosh.
This is good.
So this is good.
Thank you, the tech guys.
These guys rock.
The WWDC tech crew rocks.
So now let me just show you where I'm at.
So running back-- so
this was 10 minutes ago,
where you talked about application loss
restrictions and how Leopard clients,
they have now different
means of preventing people
from running applications.
So here I am running on a Leopard client.
And let me log on our lead
hacksaw who probably should
be doing tech support for me.
And now this user is logging on.
And as you notice,
here is a copy of Safari on the desktop.
So if we have the user
try to do the same thing,
like go to terminal and
run the hack type scripts,
well,
they still can't launch Safari from here.
So it's still denied.
And now the desktop
version is denied as well.
So this is now the
modified copy of Safari.
The user has brought this on their
FireWire drive or on a USB stick.
And has full write access to that.
Just mucking with the application no
longer makes it runnable on Leopard.
So that is the new application
loss rejection feature.
Yay.
Thank you.
And if I now go to our
second demo system.
So if this syncs up.
See, Workgroup Manager is up and running.
- Thank God, thank God!
So, I'm gonna show you,
if you would go back again in time.
So this is a time machine,
we're using time machine here.
I'm gonna run back 10 minutes again,
and I'm gonna show you nested groups.
So if you remember on
our nested groups demo,
we had a user that belonged
to multiple groups,
but we didn't want to create
multiple work groups with just
monolithic settings for them.
So, what I'm gonna do now is create
a hierarchical management
view for this particular user.
So, what I'm gonna do is
go to the groups view,
and I will create a preference setting.
Actually, sorry,
I need to create my group first.
So, create a new group,
and I'm gonna go all this doc, oops,
doc default apps.
So, doc default applications, great.
So, I'm gonna save that,
and then we're gonna assign
some applications to it.
So, I'll go into the doc
and say manage always,
and I don't really like
any of these applications,
so let me remove these,
and let me add some applications
that are supposed to be
the doc items for any user.
And let's do chess again, and let's add,
let's say, automator as well.
And we really like teams directory,
so let me add teams
directory here as well.
So, now I have my basic applications
that all the users should have.
And apply now,
so now I have my default applications.
And if I go back to accounts,
I will create a new group for another
set of preferences for the doc as well.
And I'm gonna call this
the doc admin apps.
So, here I have the
administration applications,
and I'll go into preferences again,
and change the doc settings,
and manage it always.
So, I'll remove all these applications.
And what I want to do is add the
server administration application.
So, I want to have, let's say,
server admin, yes.
I want to have system image filter, yes.
And record manager.
So, I'll add these three applications.
So, apply now.
So, I now have two kind of work groups.
But in the Tiger days,
this would have been unique,
so you couldn't pick
both at the same time.
So, now if I go back to accounts
and set the inheritance of this.
So, I have...
the default applications group
but I'll also make a member of
this default applications group,
the admin applications.
So now they are nested and click on save
and if I now go into the administration
applications and add users to that,
so let's say Jane Smith is
one of our admins,
so now Jane Smith belongs to
the admin applications group.
So when Jane logs on,
Jane should get the admin application
preferences as well as the default
application preferences in her dock.
So, excuse me, that's it.
And if I now go back to my client
here and log out lead hacker,
yes,
and Lugon Chan-Smith.
Jane Smith And now the doc should
be the default applications
and the admin applications.
So effectively, I got all the different
preferences combined.
So Jane now has the Teams directory,
Chess, Automator items that came from the
default applications group for everyone.
And then these administration
applications came from the admin group.
And Jane just belongs to one group.
So Jane doesn't belong to the default
applications groups explicitly.
She belongs to that through inheritance.
So one way to tell this is if
I now go to System Profiler,
and click on More Info.
So you'll see that we have a
new section for Managed Client.
So here,
if I click on any of this... Thank you.
So you can tell that these application
hints come from two groups.
And, oh, we have a bug here.
So this doesn't really display
what they're supposed to be,
so let me use a command-line
version of this.
So I can use, let's see, ID, who am I?
I'm Jane Smith, so if I use MCX query,
and user is Jane Smith, and my group was,
that I logged on, is docadminapps.
Ooh, now that looks kind of awful.
But here, essentially you can tell that
these two groups were combined.
So we have the
Duck Administration applications,
and we have the
Duck Default applications.
And these preferences
were inherited from that.
And this is kind of readable, sort of,
kind of.
And if you want to display
these preferences in a,
let's say, repurposable way,
we can say Format XML.
And this creates your PList.
So now we can actually tell that, oh,
yeah, OK,
these keys came from Application Server,
Workgroup Manager, whatnot.
These keys were inherited from the
Duck Admin Applications group and
Duck Default Applications group.
OK?
So that's reporting.
And if I now go back to my demo setup.
So that's reporting and client-side
features and we go back here.
So now if I go to terminal and
so we mentioned that there was
a Director Services Utility
extension or DSCL extension to
MCX or MCX has an extension to
Director Services command-line tool.
So if I use DSCL,
let me get my cheat sheet here.
So I'm going to auth into the
LDAP node that is my LDAP server.
So server.wcnet and do a Dear Admin auth.
And I guess this is the password.
Yes, OK.
So if you're familiar with the DSCL,
so I can change my working directory
just by navigating through the hierarchy,
and I know that, OK,
I created the dot admin
applications group.
So I can now use the reporting
extension inside the DSCL command
line by just saying mcx read and dot.
And these are my settings for this
particular mcx object for the managed
client settings for this group.
So I can see that there
are some settings here.
But now, if I go back to the users and
try to look what's there for
Jane-- so if I use mcx read dot,
Jane doesn't have any preferences.
And that's evident if
I go back to the accounts.
And try to click on Jane as a user here.
And if I look at the preferences,
Jane doesn't have any preferences,
which is fine.
But if I wanted to do some preference
editing from the command line tool,
what I'd do is call mcx set.
And for this particular record,
and say I know that the
application is called doc.
And the preference I want
to set is orientation,
and we have a-- refresh problem.
Let's do that again.
mcx set dot com apple doc.
and do not make any typing
errors orientation and make it
an always preference and it's
a string and it's called left.
There.
So now if I do MCX read,
this particular node,
I've just set an MCX preference.
So this is managed desktop
from the command line tool.
And where could this be useful?
If you have, let's say,
webfronts into your user base,
and you'd want to set some
login options or whatnot through
Ruby on Rails or whatnot.
I don't even know what
you'd use this for.
The options are endless, right?
You have the power.
I could create an automator action or a
automator workflow and embed MCX settings
or managed client settings in that.
So now you have full access
to the internals of MCX on
managed client and use that.
And let me just go back to Jane here
and actually show that this works.
So now my dock is at the bottom,
as you can tell.
And let's quit out of that.
No more system profiler even.
And log out Jane.
And then we go into James Smith again.
James Smith.
and log her in.
And without touching Workgroup Manager,
mysteriously her duck
appears on the left.
So this works.
Okay, now I'll take a sip of water.
So, all the demos rolled up into one.
Where do we go next?
Okay, so this was hierarchical
groups using Managed Client 10
and using command-line tools,
using System Profiler.
And there are options to use this
with computer groups now as well.
So in future releases or future
seed releases of Leopard,
we have all this stuff working.
Right now on the developer
seat that you have,
there are stubs here and there,
so you might actually see some of this,
but all of that hasn't been
vetted from end to end,
so you might see some
interesting interaction,
but wait for the next seed,
and then please give us
feedback as what works for you,
what doesn't.
So that is the Managed Desktop demo,
and next we'll go on to...
Slides and Nick,
do you want to set up your demo here?
[Transcript missing]
So now I know where we are.
So Time Machine doesn't actually
give you future predictions,
so that's too bad.
External accounts,
so we did external accounts.
And this was Managed Desktop.
So for Managed Desktop features,
we also are looking at plugins.
So there are new features
in Workgroup Manager,
of course,
to keep up with Leopard Client.
There are no controls over
application loss restrictions.
There are controls over Dashboard.
And for mobility, of course, we did--
Go back.
Popul Mobility.
So we have account expiration.
So if you wanted to have a cart
of MacBooks and have portable home
directories created on those accounts
or have them expire automatically,
now we have expiration control for that.
We can restrict how many accounts
are created on a machine.
We have external accounts, of course,
part of that, and controls in Workgroup
Manager for that.
And we have options of turning
off or disabling internet sharing.
So if your site doesn't really want to
have rogue DHCP servers on the network,
we can enforce that policy as well.
And we have options of allowing
disk images to be restricted
as a unique data type,
as opposed to just removable media.
And we have also under the hood controls
for some application level settings.
For example, for iChat,
if you were at the server
overview yesterday,
the simple server setup where clients
actually get their configurations from
their team server or their server setup,
that is using the managed desktop
feature set for preference controls.
And there will be others as
we develop other features,
maybe for backup or
things of that nature.
So this concludes the
managed desktop part.
So let me then move on to system imaging.
So system imaging,
we wanted to take the next
step in system imaging.
So bring the platform forward.
And the two things we found that
we wanted to make it easier to use,
and that is through an image assistant.
So there is almost one-click
image creation process now.
And then we wanted to make it
easier to redo your workflows.
So if you're creating
similar images repeatedly,
then we'd probably want to
use something like Automator
to re-execute the workflows.
So also under the hood,
you'd want to have control over
how these images are created.
So in addition to making it easy to use,
we also want to expose some of the
internals of how system imaging
actually works and give you the
option of creating exactly the kind of
deployment sets that you want to create.
And this is also available
through command line tools again.
So not just using SIU as a Cocoa app.
we can now create system
images from terminal.
So,
command-line tool and Automator Workflow.
So, we decided that probably the best way
to expose all the things that happen
when we are creating system images,
either creating net boot
images or net install images,
is to create an Automator
action for corresponding
items that we do internally.
So, this is like the Erector set or
for Europeans that are Meccano set.
And this is just giving us
the building blocks as well.
So, we now have a very modular design
of the System Image Utility where
individual elements can be called
independently from one another.
It's not just a monolithic
like stove pile application.
You can take pieces what you need
and basically build different
kinds of workflows or methodologies
of creating images through this.
So, it is modular by design.
And what Automator gives us as well
is that we can reuse these workflows.
We can save the workflows
and apply them to new images.
So, let's say we get a
eight core Intel Xenon,
who knows what.
And you get the latest
Mac OS X Leopard version,
9K1234.
So, you probably know that that's
not something that you can
just swipe on any system.
So, you want to bring your
system images forward.
And to recreate that system,
you can just apply a workflow
against that system and get all your
other settings automatically applied
so you don't have to maintain,
15 different versions of systems.
You can just use this workflow
and apply it on multiple systems.
So hopefully that's going to be, yeah,
resume from System Image Utility
and from command-line.
Here we go.
And...
This is kind of self-evident now.
So you can also use the command-line
utility to bring up some parameters
as to like call in the image that
you're creating on a different name.
So passing variables that are
particular to that one image and
pass those on as arguments into the
workflows so that you don't have to
go back into System Image Utility
and edit the workflow just to touch
up on some image ID or the image
name or some other parameters there.
And now Nick, who is the lead engineer
now on System Image Utility,
he will give a demo of
the system image utility.
Hi.
Can you hear me?
Hello.
I'll give you a short glimpse
at the new system image utility,
which is at the moment
completely work in progress,
so you won't find it on the seed CD.
But just have a look and
take a look in the next seed,
so you'll probably find it there.
So let's just say Leopard came out and
you want to deploy it as fast as you can.
You probably want to
use our new assistant.
You just drag the DVD over here,
select assistant, and instantly,
in the matter of a few clicks,
you can just create a
new net install image.
Everything gets filled out for you,
pre-filled.
And at this point, you're already set and
you can create your image.
I skipped this here, otherwise we would,
well, have no Q&A at all.
At next I will show you how
to make your own workflow.
Let's say the same scenario.
Take your Leopard CD, take it over.
Now we have here our image
selection action where you can
choose whether a net install or
net boot or what source you want.
Add some image data.
Give it a name.
Say we're making NetBoot.
Netboot of Leopard.
Leopard, give it some index and
we serve it remotely,
locally.
And because it's a netboot,
we have to add a user.
So I want to add myself here.
Nick and some password.
And also at this point we already
could start creating the image.
But I just want to save it here.
We have already one workflow.
Well, OK.
So at this point,
I want to show you how to reuse an
image and a workflow that was saved.
Take it over.
And so we have the same workflow
we just created over here,
and now we can go completely crazy
with all the actions we have.
We can add another user.
What is it?
Oh, add packages, sorry.
Took the wrong one.
Of course, you can add packages.
Nothing interesting here,
so I'll skip this.
Add another -- huh?
Oh, I think I found another.
Oh, yeah, okay.
There we go.
Make it a bit bigger.
and some admin user here.
Don't care about passwords.
One of the very cool features
I think many of you requested is
the per-image MAC address filtering.
We have some issues
here with the scrolling.
Where does it go?
Make address filtering.
Here we go.
Sorry.
We can now filter the
Mac addresses per image and not
on the server as it was before.
So just enter here some fancy
Mac addresses you want to allow
or deny for a specific image.
We could also, of course,
customize our selections of packages.
As it was used in the old
network image utility,
go away.
As is a mighty mouse.
And... Hey, see I'm not the only one
who has problems with this.
and and customize your selection
here or do model filtering as I have
to fix this one and say we will only
get it out to our new Intel systems
so we can really force the Yeah,
I know the new Mac Pro is missing.
Sorry for this one.
Tyed into a directory service,
of course this is still in.
And one of the things I think
you all were waiting for is
the remote image restore.
We can now hook directly
into an ASR multicast stream
and restore ASR images.
[Transcript missing]
I think we will add several more
actions for the next seats and on the
next seats this too will be included.
So yeah,
we hope to get your feedback for this.
So I hand over to Juussi again.
So, thank you Nick.
Isn't that cool?
Yes.
Back to the slides please.
So that was the demo of Automator.
So this will be a Leopard-only feature.
To use the 10.5 tools,
you require 10.5 OS.
So if you need to create a tiger, jaguar,
panther, whatever images,
you'll need to use the previous
tools from either Tiger or earlier.
But you can still serve the images,
any images on a Leopard Server,
and the Leopard-created images can be
served on other previous systems as well.
And in summary, before we go into QA,
so what did we cover?
Managed desktop.
So the top three items we have,
application launch restrictions,
so fix it and forget it.
Users should not be able to go
and circumvent the application
launch policies anymore.
Adding dashboard support for that.
Hierarchical groups,
so we can now have nested groups
and workgroups that inherit
preferences from other workgroups,
including reporting tools.
So we have system profile integration,
and we have a command line tool,
and we have command line tools for
setting managed client preferences.
And external accounts,
so next generation of portable
home directories and mobility,
so you can actually carry your
home directory on a external drive.
And then for system imaging,
so simplified image creation,
and we have automated workflows,
and you can all do this
from the command line.